Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to look at most events.
So we saw earlier that we had the click event where we could click a particular element we added the
On Click event and we could fire off a bunch of functions and do different things as the user interacts
with that click event.
So there's also mouse events and we saw also within the dorm there's quite a lot of them.
So what I've done is I've set up an image I have gone over to placeholder dot com and their Web site
that provides basic placeholder images that you can use when you're developing your web site and you
don't have any images on hand that you want to make use of.
You can update the text.
You can update the color the size level.
Bunch of options here.
So what I've done is I've simply used placeholder dot com.
I've set the dimensions of the image.
I've set the background color I've set the font color and I've added in some information for the text.
So basically at the end of the day we're outputting this image.
So what I want to do is actually want to add mouseover to this image.
I want something to happen whenever the user hovers their mouse over that image.
So this one is called on mouse over and I'm going to do it as an attribute.
So we know that it's going to work the same way as the On Click event where you've got and that's should
be and so on mouse over.
So enter in the function that you want to trigger off.
So we'll just call it Change change I m g which is what we're going to do and we're going to use this.
So we're going to pass over the entire element object so that we know that we can grab the source of
this image and really quickly change the source just as we did changing the inner text and so on with
the other ones we want to do the same thing.
And we also want the user to be able to switch off when they leave.
So I wanna show you that as well.
So now let's set up our function.
So we've going to create a function called c i m g and we're passing the value of this through there
so I'm going to just use t.
You can use any variable you want this just to hold that value.
So what I want to do is I want to first of all let's put the value into this the wrapper.
So we can do that.
Get documents get element by id and we're going to grab that element and let's use inner HMO.
And so how do we get the source value.
So remember before when we use this we get all of that that element as an object represented as t.
So we know that this element has a source attribute.
So just as we got the ID just as we got information about elements before we can do the same things
we can do to source.
And let's try this out first so refreshed.
And now when we hover over it we get the image you are l the image source being represented in there.
So that's exactly what we want to happen.
So next the next thing that I want to do is I want to I want to create a function that will pass a message.
So we're just going to use them as the argument there and instead of having that over here I want to
simply do it here.
And instead of that I want to just put.
So basically now I can use functions a little bit smarter clean up my code a bit and I can do to source
and pass it as a message and then this message is actually going to update over here.
So the same thing that we already have.
So what I also want to do is I want to change the source.
So remember how previously we could change the value of the button.
So how do you think we could change the source.
So what I want to do is I want to change the source to where you to use the same placeholder but we're
going to have different background color.
So update the background color so maybe
and also get the text.
So I want the text to say image too.
So I want basically this image now to be represented there.
So pause the video and open up your editor and use on mouse over to change the image when the user hovers
over it.
And so you how to do that.
So in order to change the image we already have the source there so we have access to the source so
we can change that image source really easily like that.
So let's go out and refresh our page.
And now whenever we hover over it now we've got our brand new image and you see the next time that we
go over it.
So the first time we go over it whereas we've swapped it to this value.
And now when I go over it again we're actually grabbing the next value.
So what I want to happen is when the user moves his mouse out I want to replace it with the original
image.
So let me show you how to do that.
So this one is on mouse.
So you see we've got a few options mouse down mouse move mouse mouse up mouse wheel.
We've got a number of options to choose from and the one that I want to use on mouse.
I would and I want to use that as another function so we're going to be back.
I MGE.
So basically we're sending the image back to what it originally was.
So we've got a number of choices here.
We could set a global variable and have that variable so we could set something like this where we've
got variable and in case we had the same functionality on a number of images.
So this one is just maybe image holder and we'll put we'll add value there.
And we're also going to overwrite it.
So just in case we start out and we don't have a default value we should have one in there.
So we know that what we can do here is we can simply update our AMG holder.
So maybe our default should be 5 or something like that.
So update am Holder to be this path to the source.
So now when we create our new function whenever we're coming back in.
And we're swapping it back.
So that's the EMG function.
Let's take the value of t.
So the this entire object.
And now all we need to do is swap the source and we can swap the source out with AMG holder.
So that's it.
So that's all we have to do.
So let's try this and refresh the page.
So now what I want and I leave I get back to my original image.
So no point over using this one that I've had for default I'm just using the value here that I'm originally
sending as the source and so on.
And we could even do even more where if we wanted to we could set the source of this image.
So whenever the page loads so that we don't have a blank image there we can set the source whatever
the holder image is.
So let's let's do that and want you to pause the video and think about what we did before where we initiated
a function where we could grab the source.
So I want you to to update the source when the page loads when the when the page loads update the source
of the image going by the ID I am g.
Swap.
So we had an opportunity to try that out and this is where we can use window on load and the window
onload function.
We could fire that off and we don't actually even need to have a function.
We can just do a function in here.
So an anonymous function.
And then within here we can update so-what next that we need to do is document get element by id and
grab the ID so IMJ swap update the source of it and equal that to I am g holder.
So let's try this out.
And when we refresh the page indeed we start out with I am G-5.
So that's our initial image.
So now I can actually get rid of this go back refreshed the page and we've got a fully functioning application.
We've got a lot of the code cleaned up and we're simply loading all of the image information.
So this image we can change it.
So all of a sudden we don't like this image and we want to have maybe a different color or something
like that.
So if we want to have this color and we refresh it.
Now we've got a yellow image and we're swapping it out.
So it's more dynamic this way.
So I also did want to mention as well that for this element the only way that we can actually have two
different event handlers on it is if we use that within the attribute because if we try to grab it here
within the java script we can only use one of these.
So we can set on mouseover but we can't do on mouseover or we could do it on mouseover.
So we can only do one and if we register one within the javascript that we're actually going to overwrite
the event handlers that are already there.
So let me just show you quickly how that works.
So basically if I do document and we do get element by ID.
So we know that we have the ID AMG swap and let's do on click.
So that's one that we're familiar with.
So whenever it gets clicked that we want to fire off a function so just do an anonymous function and
let's do message
quick and that's it.
So now whenever it gets clicked let's refresh it the clicked works and whenever we hover on and off
that works as well.
But if we try to change this to on mouseover
and we get rid of this one in here now when I refresh it I'm not able to do another mouse event so I
only get that one mouse event in my on mouse.
It doesn't work.
So the click will work but the mouse events don't work.
So you can do it within a combination like this or you could add the on click over here.
But just keep in mind that you don't want you can't register more than one most of them to one of the
one click event per element when you're doing it within this way within the javascript so that's a disadvantage.
So do try it for yourself.
Have the images swap.
And keep in mind that you can't register them here.
Both of the mouse over events here.